[Music]
what is up
youtube it's your girl evelyn and i am
back with the
season 4 episode 4 recap of winona earp
as always there will be spoilers so
proceed with caution
after being officially black badged at
the end of episode
3 wynonna finds herself face to face
with naomi haicha
dvd's newest deputy assistant director
and naomi knows nothing apparently the
former bbd
kept extremely sparse files and the
clueless naomi
believes wynonna is just another
run-of-the-mill bbd
agent and now that purgatory's crawling
with demons
black badge needs all the help they can
get
but before wynonna can tell her to kick
rocks
our boy jeremy shows up and convinces
wynonna to play along with this
newer less evil version of bbd
wynonna eventually agrees and jeremy
gives her a plasma gun
and her first assignment find out who's
been hijacking
bbd supply trucks but before taking off
wynonna discovers a rock in her pocket
engraved with a strange symbol
she assumes it's a bbd surveillance
device
and tosses it which was probably a bad
idea
because we then glimpse a photo of
winona being covered with blood
as something breaks free from its chains
meanwhile back at the homestead waverly
is preparing a
detailed powerpoint presentation about
the current state of affairs in
purgatory
unfortunately no one shows up
doc's busy extorting eamonn the owner of
the glory hole
wynonna is busy playing with her black
badge buddies
and rachel is a teenager thankfully
nicole is present and ready to give
waverly
her full attention i don't want to go in
while way hot get frisky rachel meets up
with billy
her boyfriend who's not really her
boyfriend
but like totally her boyfriend after
swapping some random items because the
bartering system has made a comeback
billy tries to kiss rachel but she's not
quite ready
for that level of intimacy but she does
invite herself
to billy's house for dinner and
surprisingly
she gets swerved rachel thinks it's
because billy is embarrassed about
living on a junkyard but billy
cryptically tells her
that things are sad at his place back at
the homestead
nicole and waverly are enjoying some
post-coital bliss
when waverly brings up her proposal from
last season
you know the one nicole hasn't accepted
yet
nicole tries to distract waverly from
marriage talk with another round of
lovemaking
but the two are interrupted by rachel
because
they're having sex in the middle of the
kitchen
but all rachel cares about is getting
next to billy
in his junkyard she suggests that the
junkyard would be a great place
to search for peacemaker you guys
remember peacemaker
wynonna's magical gun that sent
revenants to hell
until it was turned into a magical sword
by bolshar
and used to open the garden of eden and
then it just kinda disappeared
the ladies hit the junkyard and waverly
has a close encounter with
whatever the heck this thing is except
waverly can't see the creature
and neither can nicole but margot
billy's mother
can it also becomes apparent that margot
and nicole
share a secret and margot tells nicole
that she's still
waiting for what she's owed elsewhere in
the junkyard
rachel confesses her crush to billy and
billy responds
by telling her she needs to leave now
a heartbroken rachel grabs her two moms
and
hightails it back to the homestead
meanwhile
wynonna and her bbd partner simon are
undercover
they're driving a truck full of supplies
when they run over a spike strip
laid out by the crafty robber simon
immediately jets but wynonna and her
plasma gun stay to investigate
she catches doc red-handed and the two
have a fight
doc doesn't trust bbd and doesn't think
wynonna should either
winona wants doc to stop stealing the
town's supplies
so she handcuffs herself to one of the
crates before realizing
that simon has the keys doc goes to
fetch some tools to free winona
and while he's gone wynonna finds yet
another engraved rock
in her pocket finally realizing that
something
supernatural is at play she texts a
photo of the rock to waverly
and asks her to investigate the symbol
but waverly's research
might be too late because the nasty
looking creature shows up
and tries to kill wynonna the creature
breaks winona's cuffs while trying to
attack her
and wynonna jets with the creature on
her heels
back at the homestead billy shows up
unannounced
but not to apologize instead he dumps
rachel
who at that moment finds a rock in her
jacket pocket
except it's not her jacket it's winona's
waverly's research confirms that the
engraved symbol
is actually a cattle brand used by the
clantons
an infamous cattle wrestling family who
hated white earth
and turns out the clantons aren't
purgatory
a quick check-in with wynonna reveals
that things
are going badly very badly
thankfully doc finds her and they shoot
the creature
but it doesn't die
back at the barn things are getting
freaky
when billy sees rachel's rock he flips
out
inserts a pair of pliers in his mouth
and
rips out a molar then he says some weird
stuff that
no one understands but out in the woods
the creature immediately stops chasing
doc and winona
billy then fills the ladies in on what's
really going on
billy is a clanton and so is sheriff
holt claiborne
and the booty stabbing magistrate cleo
in fact cleo and holt are billy siblings
and the creature is a reaper a hunter
that only appears to its targets
which is why waverly and nicole couldn't
see it
and its targets are identified by the
cattle branded rocks
the clantons control the reapers but
billy's not about that life
so he used his one covenant to save
rachel's life
which actually saved wynonna's life
after billy's explainer he kisses rachel
goodbye
and goes off to die or something
when wynonna and doc return to the
homestead rachel realizes that
billy sacrificed himself and she wants
to save him
but winona's like i don't know who this
man is
i mean he could be walking down the
street i wouldn't i wouldn't know a
thing
sorry to this man back at the junkyard
the clanton kids are home
and margot is pissed at cleo
turns out the reapers aren't just
reapers
they're clantons and margot is appalled
that cleo used their ancestors like
attack dogs
because it was cleo who initially sick
the reaper on wynonna
in the first place the abusive margot
sticks her finger into cleo's wound
until she cries
and then some more but cleo's not the
only one who faces margo's wrath
poor billy is chained up out back and
turned into a reaper
after the close call with the reaper
wynonna comes clean
to the new bbd she tells them who she
really
is and demands the reinstatement of her
scooby gang
including jeremy
and we can't forget the weird secret
vibe between
nicole and margo apparently during those
infamous 18 months nicole asked for
margo's help
to locate the gang and in return margot
gave nicole
a jar full of hair and sticks
nicole gives margo the jar back
insisting that it did nothing
let's just say margot disagrees
and that is it for the recap thank you
guys so much for watching
don't forget to subscribe for more
winona herb and i'll see you next week